so good afternoon in this session you're
going to learn how to enable
connectivity with VPNs and direct
connect into your AWS resources my goal
is that in an hour's time whether you're
a network engineer a cloud architect
needs the platform or experienced with
the platform that you'll have all of the
skills you need to get a connection up
and running with AWS my name is Steve
see more I'm a solutions architect I'm
based in the UK there's going to be no
use of the word router in this session
will be routing everything ok so what
should you expect from this session well
I'm going to be talking about various
scenarios that I see with customers that
I work with regularly so there's a bit
of a story to to this session with in it
there's always going to be some
characters to that story so we have our
network engineers for example some
locations obviously the cloud is one of
those a corporate data center or a
corporate network is the other component
that I'm going to be talking about a lot
during this session and i hope to give
you a toolbox a set of things that you
can use in the future when you're
deploying connectivity projects relating
to AWS i'm finally hopefully a form of
checklist and a set of methods that you
can go through so let's talk about the
characters the team that's involved in
this lee examples we're going to be
using this afternoon first of all we've
got the network engineering team key
very important team in terms of a
connectivity project usually working
very closely with a cloud architect team
perhaps the application developers as
well and the first thing I would say
about establishing connectivity to
radius is it's key that those teams work
together there used to be an
understanding of what are the
requirements from the network team and
what is it that the application owners
the architects need from the solution
and then finally I can't encourage you
more to use the AWS solutions
architecture team the team that I'm part
of and our support team to help you with
these projects you can raise support
cases to ask questions about how do I do
this it doesn't have to be because
you're having a problem with something
so this is going to be the the basis of
the discussion we're having an Amazon
VPC you've probably
all got something deployed that's very
similar to this public subnets private
subnets requirements for connectivity
out to the internet but we don't need to
get into the detail of what's inside
this particular VPC so for this session
we're going to simplify that down to
this this is our VPC for the purpose of
this discussion on the corporate side
you've probably all seen network
diagrams that looks something like this
this is representative of the corporate
infrastructure that we're going to be
connecting into again let's simplify
that down for the purpose of this
session so this is our corporate
infrastructure on the right of the
screen so that makes up our environment
we're going to be connecting these two
together using VPNs direct connect and a
few other topics that I'll touch on so
let's give ourselves a bit of room to
work with and we're going to fill in the
gaps in the middle okay so what have we
got in the toolbox that we're working
with now this is a 400 level session so
I'm going to assume that you all know
what all these components are and in
fact we're going to go one step further
we're not going to refer to them
necessarily by their their full names
there let's use the the short names that
we use in the console we don't tend to
see em root tables those short and so
I'm going to leave that one as it is but
we're going to be referring to V pcs v
gws cgw DX is the abbreviation we use
for direct connect so these components
make up the elements you need to
establish connectivity into your VPC the
root tables send the traffic out of the
VPC the igw is the way to get in and out
to the internet the bgw the virtual
gateway gives you access to VPNs and
direct connect endpoints the VPN is the
connectivity that you then use to
connect to the customer gateway and DX
direct connect is the final part of the
solution so these are the four specific
topics we're going to cover the hardware
VPN solution that we have direct connect
itself and virtual interface is how you
deploy those on AWS VPN cloud hub which
is something you may not have heard of
but there's been around since we
launched VPN and then finally I'm going
to touch on some software VPN examples
as well so first of all let's let's get
straight into the hardware VPN solution
that we have this is a pretty commonly
accepted description of what ipsec is
taken straight from Wikipedia but the
things I want to focus on are the fact
that
provides secure IP connectivity and
communications it authenticates it
encrypts each and every IP packet using
mutual authentication in our case using
a pre-shared key and enables the
negotiation of cryptographic keys for
exchanging the rest of the traffic over
our VPN connection so that's what we're
going to be working but that's the basis
of the AWS hardware VPN solution we have
to select variations of our VPN solution
we support both static or dynamic VPNs
and when we say dynamic we mean bgp
based that's going to be the focus of
most of the discussion here but I am
going to talk a little bit about static
VPNs first in a static VPN situation you
need to specify the IP prefixes the
routes that you want to be routing
traffic to you put those into your route
tables and they're configured you have
to go in and manually change them
manatee maintain them however a dynamic
VPN uses BGP or the gateway protocol and
we support a hundred prefixes that you
can announce to us over bgp so that's
dynamic if you change them they update
inside AWS automatically and then
finally BGP running over a VPN
connection supports to buy a s numbers
so what we mean by that is we go from
one through to 65535 the AWS ppm
requirements so these are these are all
captured in the documentation there's a
few important things I want to call out
here first of all VPN connections to AWS
are always initiated from the customer
side so your router needs to see
interesting traffic and initiate the
session to us secondly we use pre-shared
keys for authentication when you create
a VPN connection in the AWS console or
via the api's we generate a pre-shared
key that's used for the connection we
use IPSec essays in tunnel mode and
that's important I'll cover that in a
little bit more detail in a moment and
so we don't do policy based VPNs we use
aes-128 bit encryption and sha-1 we
support d hpfs group two and dead peer
detection and it's important to note
that we require you to fragment IP
packets before encryption so even if
they have the don't fragment header on
them okay so this is our static VPN
example so back to the two environments
that we have on the left-hand side we
have our
DC and I've just increased the size of
the virtual private gateway there cuz
that's what we're focusing on on the
right hand side we have the corporate
network in a static VPN situation here
you have to specify which networks you
want to route traffic to and we support
one unique sa / tunnel so that's one
inbound one outbound to unique pairs 42
tunnels so where did the two tunnels
come from you might ask well when you
configure a VPN with AWS we actually
configure two different endpoints on the
AWS end in two different availability
zones so when you create that VPN we
actually give you the configuration
details for two tunnels and they come
back to a single customer gateway on
your side of that connection we
sometimes see customers with issues
where they have certain types of
hardware VPN device that every time they
want to establish a new sa over their
VPN it's every time they want to route a
different block of IP addresses over
their VPN it establishes a new si that's
not going to work because as I said on
the previous slide we only support one
in each direction so it's really
important that you consolidate your ACLs
to cover all of the traffic that you
might want to root over this connection
actually just announce it as a zero and
any connection so at that point you now
control what traffic routes over this
particular VPN using an access control
list so static VPN slightly different
you do have to specify the IP addresses
you want to route and just remember that
we only support that pair of essays
pirtle so let's move on to dynamic VPNs
so a little bit of level setting here
some of you might have some experience
with BGP but I just want to recap
quickly on that so what is BGP it's a
TCP protocol runs on port 179 sport a
gateway protocol within a BGP
environment you have BGP neighbors they
pair with each other and they exchange
routing information exchange prefixes
now a prefix is a combination of a cider
block set of IP addresses and an AS path
so what is an AS and is is an autonomous
system and it identifies different
network environments it's not individual
via devices so for example amazon has a
single large a s number that covers the
whole of the amazon network
you'll hear the terms ibgp and ebgp so I
BGP is where we establish appearing
relationship between two neighbors that
are in the same AS number so used within
usually the same network ebgp is
external bgp as it says between peers
that are in different AS numbers finally
you're going to see some examples in the
upcoming slides of an AAS pass so this
is a measure of network distance every
time traffic passes from one network to
the other the a s number for that
network is added to the a s path and it
gradually gets longer which means when
you're on the receiving end of a BGP
announcement you can see where did it
come from what path did it take and if
you have multiple announcements for
multiple prefixes you can see which one
took a different path and perhaps make
some decisions on which one is better so
that brings me finally to local
preference now you might have received
two announcements for a particular
prefix and one of them looks a lot
shorter and a lot more efficient to get
to in terms of network but actually you
may have much more bandwidth on another
connection or perhaps it's more cost
effective so what local preference lets
you do is enforce a choice at your end
of the connection that no matter what
the path length says or or any of the
other influencing factors or path
decision elements I'm going to choose
this particular path it's my local
preference for sending traffic so there
the components you're going to hear
about in terms of BGP so what does a
dynamic VPN look like well again you'll
recognize that it's pretty similar it's
still got two tunnels so again when you
create the VPN configuration and choose
that this is a dynamic PGP based VPN
will configure two tunnels for you you
need to specify an IP address for each
end of that tunnel now when you're doing
this over a VPN we automatically
generate those IP addresses for you in
the configuration on the AWS end we have
a fixed a slumber generally at seven to
24 but it can vary by region however for
your end when you're configuring the VPN
you get to choose what is number you
want to use now the thing about BGP as I
said is it's dynamic so as you announced
routes over bgp into AWS we need to do
something with them so we need to update
the route table inside the VPC to
specify how do we get to that remote
network
so in this particular example I'm
actually just going to put an entry in
there that specifies the corporate
network on the right and to go via the
virtual gateway the virtual gateway then
receives all of the BGP announcements
from the corporate network we'd always
have an option called route propagation
as well what this does is it says
anything I receive at the virtual
gateway via bgp automatic and put it
into the route table for me so now we
don't have to maintain that route table
manually so bgp peer address is
automatically generated you're a s
number when you get to choose it you can
choose anything so if you happen to have
a public a s number for your network and
you want to use that that's fine
otherwise there's a block of a s numbers
reserved for private use the amazon
alias number as I say 7224 generally
used in a couple of regions we have 90
59 and one or two others so always
download the configuration that we
generate and check what a s number we're
using on the AWS side so how does path
selection work the virtual gateway has
now received its BGP announcements how
does it decide where it's sending its
traffic well first of all we look for
the most specific Network announcement
so a / 24 network is more preferable
than a / 16 so if we have the two of
those in the route table will pick the /
24 within the virtual gateway we then
have a look and see what have we got in
terms of connections to a customer
Network because they all come into the
virtual gateway if we see a static VPN
connection actually we prefer that first
because static routes come above any of
the other routes elections next we
choose direct connect and then finally
we choose the shortest a s path and it's
actually down here that the dynamic VPN
fits in that's very relevant because
later on if you have a direct connect in
place you're probably going to want to
be using that for all of your traffic
except in a failover situation so direct
connect comes above dynamic VPN so you
might have noticed in the previous
slides that we had two tunnels but it
came down to a single customer gateway
on the corporate side obviously a
potential single point of failure there
so it's quite easy to just build to VPN
connections which in AWS terms means
that you've just created four tunnels so
now you have four resilient tunnels
going into AWS
terminating in two different
availability zones and on the customer
side you have to customer gateway
devices these could be in the same data
center the same location or they could
be separate on your network and you're
probably going to have to run some sort
of internal routing protocol between
them to decide how do I route traffic to
AWS so that could be ibgp to use the
example from earlier or ospf or whatever
it is you deploy internally this also
then can extend on to connecting to
multiple V pcs so a single VPN
connection only connects to a single v
pc so taking our resilient model where
we had to customer gateways for tunnels
we now have two V pcs on the left hand
side and therefore we have eight tunnels
connected to them all of these are
dynamically routing to each other all
announcing their available prefixes back
to the customer gateways so this is what
I just wanted to mention a recent update
to the AWS VPN service so we now support
reusable customer gateway IP addresses
and what that means is that on your end
of the VPN connection you can use the
same IP address in many of our region's
now for connecting to multiple VP sees
inside AWS so this is rolling out across
the regions at the moment and it just
means that you don't have to have unique
customer IP address for each gateway on
your end of the connection if this is
something you want to take advantage of
simply create a new virtual gateway
create a new VPN connection then detach
the old one from your VPC and attach the
new one to it then of course delete the
old virtual gateway and the old VPN
connection to save costs it's important
to note you can only have a single
virtual gateway attached to the VPC at
any one time so create the new one in
parallel and then just swap them over we
are going to have some further features
around VPN that are going to be
announced in the coming months so keep
an eye on the forums and the blobs so
now let's step back to the beginning how
do you actually create this VPN
connection what does it look like well
the six steps involved first of all
you're going to create that virtual
gateway so you create this inside the
AWS console or obviously via the api's
you give it a name and at this point
it's not associated with anything so the
second step is you're going to attach it
to your VP see what is it we want to be
able to route traffic
to them from the third step we're going
to define the other end of that VPN
connection the customer gateway we
specify the IP address what type of
routing we want to use give it a name
etc and if it's dynamic specify das
number that i mentioned earlier finally
we join those two components together
the virtual private gateway and the
customer gateway with a VPN so at this
point you're simply choosing the two
endpoints and if you need to you can
create a new customer gateway here if
you hadn't done in the previous stage
but there's no other configuration you
need to do once that's done you go into
your route tables and if this is a
dynamic VPN simply enable root
propagation as you can see there you
check the box next to the virtual
gateway now anything that it receives
over VPN or direct connectors we're
going to cover later will automatically
be propagated into that particular route
table so that's great everything's
configured now on the AWS side all
that's left is to configure the customer
end of this VPN connection so you'll
notice that we have a download
configuration option we provide
configurations for a range of different
route of manufacturers but we also have
an option to download a generic
configuration this is standard ipsec VPN
connectivity so the information you need
is within that generic configuration
document and you can use that to
configure the equipment on your end of
the connection okay so we're going to
move on to direct connect now so what is
direct connect well quite simply it is a
dedicated private link into the AWS
network you can create things called
private or public virtual interfaces on
a direct connect give you access to
different types of resources within the
AWS environment it enables you to
benefit from reduced data transfer rates
data transfer into AWS is always free
but reduce data transfer rate out of AWS
and one of the most common reasons for
wanting to use Direct Connect is a
combination between high bandwidth but
consistent performance so there's always
going to be latency in a connection but
over a direct connect it's going to be a
consistent experience it's going to be
as low as we can make it and it's coming
directly into your network it's avoiding
any potential internet whether type
events so the VPN connection as much
bandwidth as you might have on your side
and as much as
there is on the AWS side we are crossing
the public internet Direct Connect
doesn't do that there is at least one
direct connect location for every AWS
region in many cases there's multiple
Direct Connect locations and this is
where you interface with our equipment
to connect your fiber connection you can
have multiple Direct Connect connections
so you can establish multiple
connections in one of our locations or
across multiple locations for a
particular region and also it's very
common to see customers with multiple
AWS accounts so they might have a
perhaps a payer account and then a
development account a test account a
production account and they don't want
to purchase a direct connect for every
single one of those which you can share
a direct connect across those accounts
and then finally we have something
called into region connectivity which is
available within the US regions and it
enables you to get a connection at one
particular us region and reach out to
resources in another region I'm going to
talk about that in a little bit more
detail later on but it's for use with
public virtual interfaces for accessing
things that are outside your VPC as we
said earlier all of this is using bgp to
exchange routing information and it's
carrying that over an 80 2.1 q VLAN that
runs on Direct Connect we don't support
any other routing protocols at all over
direct connect it's specifically be GPS
and no static routes no ospf this is a
list of the ados regions and their
corresponding Direct Connect locations
as you can see many of them do actually
have to direct connect locations and
these are Colo facilities these are
places that you might actually have some
of your own equipment or can at least
get access to to deploy equipment this
list is maintained and updated on the
website and we're always expanding these
direct connect locations so given that
this is a network discussion I thought
somewhere in here I've got to get a no I
saw a chart so here we have it right at
the bottom there I skipped a few of them
as you can see but at the bottom we've
got our physical layer so layer 1 what
is this in direct connect terms well
it's a single mode fiber for a one gig
or a 10 gig direct connect the physical
layer
is a single-mode fiber so let's talk
about the physical connection side of
Direct Connect first and we've got a few
turns up on the screen there I'm sure
they're familiar to most of you some of
them have got something in common which
is that that grouping are basically the
same thing they might be delivered in a
slightly different way but when it comes
down to it they're going to be either a
layer one or a layer two Ethernet
delivery of the service that extends the
port from our location to wherever
you're located the bottom one is a
little bit different so how do we deploy
the physical connection well once you
request a direct connect connection we
give you something called an L away I
have an example of it later on a letter
of authority and what it is is
permission to now connect two ports on
AWS is Reuters so if you're located
within the same facility as our
equipment this can be as simple as a
cross connect under the floor you can
just raise a cross connect request with
say equinix or coresight or one of our
Direct Connect locations and say here's
our rack here's where AWS are located a
range of cross connect for me
single-mode fiber as I said the two
interface types that we support thousand
base LX and 10g base lr if you're not
with in that facility that goes back to
those terms i was using earlier for the
physical connections so you might
purchase a pseudowire type service or a
lan extension service from a carrier or
a direct connect partner and a direct
connect partner will extend it from that
location out to wherever you need it to
be delivered to your equipment and then
the final component is obviously a
Rooter to go on the other end of that
connection so that Rueter needs to
support obviously the interface type if
it's within the building that single
mode connection or however the carrier
presents it to you it needs to support
8.o 2.1 QV lands which is what we use to
carry the bgp sessions and this is what
it looks like so we've still got our
same scenario here left hand side is AWS
right hand side is the corporate network
we now have our direct connect location
between us we have the AWS direct
connect reuters in that location and in
this example i'm showing that you're
co-located there as well so you've got
perhaps some of your service
some infrastructure there and part of
your environment you want to link into
resources within AWS you probably also
have the rest of your customer network
connecting back to the corporate
environment on the right hand side so
this is the the really simple example I
was talking about a cross connect so
what are the components that make up
this well first of all between the AWS
region and the direct connect location
we have the Amazon backbone so this is
the diverse and resilient connectivity
from the direct connect location back to
all of the availability zones within the
AWS region so direct connect gives you
access to all of the availability zones
the next component here is the cross
connect that we've ordered perhaps from
the facility between the AWS equipment
and your equipment then we have your
route of the customer Rooter pap sitting
in your cage your rack an access circuit
of some sort into a network and then
onward delivery into the corporate
environment so pretty standard pretty
simple deployment the variation on this
that I mentioned earlier was the partner
delivery so the direct connect partners
and there's a list of them on the
website they're very familiar with this
process and what you would do is you
would hand them your letter of authority
which gives them permission to connect
into the AWS equipment they then
connected into their network and usually
deliver unto you as a layer to type
connection so now you still run the
vlans on your router you still run the
BGP there are variations out there but
this is the the most standard and the
simplest model for a partner connection
at one gig or 10 gig so let's go back to
that one that was slightly different
let's talk about mpls IP VPN vpls that
type of thing well in this scenario
you've usually got an existing network
connecting together your corporate
locations perhaps a data center already
and these might be multiple locations
globally so on the edge of the MPLS
Network there's going to be what's
called P equipment provider edge and
you're going to have some see reuters
customer edge equipment inside your data
centers now in this particular case if
the putt the carrier providing this
connectivity for you is a direct connect
partner often they will take that L away
from you order the cross connect and
deliver it straight into their p Reuters
on the side of their MPLS network they
then encapsulate that and deliver it
your IP VPN or your layer 3 VPN service
that you receive from them but they do
all of the bgp and the VLAN termination
right at the edge in that location so
it's a slightly different deployment
model okay let's go back to our model oh
I've removed the the layer 1 2 3 and
just put some of the terms in here that
we use for direct connect and how they
map onto the components on the right
hand side so I've mentioned a virtual
interface a couple of times so what is
that well it sits on top of that
physical connection we have at the very
bottom of the stack here so a virtual
interface contains the VLAN definition
that's one of the components that we
need to configure for direct connect it
contains the details of the IP addresses
that we use on each end of the BGP
session and it carries the BGP session
itself so when you see the term virtual
interface that's what it means so each
virtual interface is a combination of a
VLAN and a BGP session all of that then
enables you to route traffic as it says
at the top on the right hand side and if
this is going to a VPC so it's a private
virtual interface that's where it
connects with the virtual private
gateway and gives you access into your
VPC and this particular example all of
those components are owned by the same
AWS account so on the left-hand side AC
1 so let's talk about the difference
between public and private virtual
interfaces for a moment what have they
got in common well they both use 8021 QV
lands they both use ebgp peering between
two different AS numbers as i said
earlier we accept hundred prefixes over
bgp but a private virtual interface is
for accessing resources that are inside
your virtual private cloud so your ec2
resources that are running on IP
addresses that you specified when you
created the VPC it doesn't give you
access to VPC endpoints for s3 inside
that v pc and it doesn't enable any sort
of transitive routing using VPC peering
it just gives you access to that
particular v pc so if you have multiple
v pcs you'll have multiple virtual
interfaces one going to each of them a
public virtual interface is used to
access the services that are outside of
your v pc so things like DynamoDB s3
public endpoints SQ s any of those kinds
of services that sit outside the DPC if
they're the things that you're using
then you
most likely to need a public virtual
interface so back to our model here I
want you to just call out a couple of
other terms that you might see or hear
around direct connect and this is
identifying that we can separate out the
ownership of the various components of
direct connect so the physical
connection perhaps that's owned by the
network team so it considered one
particular AWS account when you create a
virtual interface you can then choose to
share that virtual interface to another
account and we then call that a hosted
virtual interface so now we have the
separation there between two different
accounts perhaps the network team and
the application owners a further
variation on that is where you're using
one of our sub 1 gig connections so
these are bandwidths of 50 meg 100 two
three four and five hundred megabits per
second these are not dedicated ports
these reports that partners have
connected with us already and they
provision the sub right connections for
you on those ports so in this particular
case the partner already has the
physical connection in this case we call
it an interconnect you speak with that
partner about what connectivity you
require how much bandwidth do you need
and they will then provision you what's
called a hosted connection on that
interconnect they specify the bandwidth
and because they own the physical
connection they choose the VLAN tag
that's going to be used for it but at
that point is presented in to your
account into your customer account and
we call that a hosted connection from
this point up it's exactly the same as
the other types of dedicated port
connections you still create a virtual
interface and you still attached it to a
virtual private gateway there's one site
difference here in that it only supports
a single virtual interface / hosted
connection so if you need to connect to
multiple V pcs simply have a
conversation with the direct connect
partner that says I might need two or
three hosted connections to put a
virtual interface on each one of them
just to add one more layer of complexity
in here you still have the option to
create a hosted virtual interface in
this model so the partner has now
created the hosted connection and shared
it with perhaps your main account within
that main account you've then created a
virtual interface and you've shared that
to the development team so it's now a
hosted virtual interface so we now have
three elements involved three owners of
the
different components of direct connect
so as I say it only provides access to
resources within the VPC it attaches at
that same place that the VPN connections
do so it comes into the virtual private
gateway now that's relevant for cloud
hub which will be talking about towards
the end you can attach multiple private
vist virtual interfaces to that virtual
private gateway so if there's multiple
connections you simply attach multiple
virtual interfaces to that virtual
private gateway and because this is a
private virtual interface you can use
whatever IP addresses you like so you
can specify the IP addresses for the
peering session or will automatically
generate them for you you can announce
any IP addresses you like over that BGP
session to us will then propagate them
into your route table you can also just
announced a default route so at that
point we'll send all traffic out by the
virtual gateway back to your corporate
network so what does that look like when
we deploy into our environment back to
our VPC and our corporate data center on
the right hand side you can see the
parameters at the very top so the first
thing is a virtual interface we identify
it by something good a DX VF identifier
you'll see that in the console on the
custom side it's usually identified by
some sort of sub interface or veal and
definition on your equipment we choose a
VLAN tag we did that via the console
earlier we're going to specify the IP
addresses that we use for that hearing
session the AS number again on the AWS
side that's fixed generally the same for
most regions but then what is some
variation on the customer side you get
to choose what is number you want to use
so as I said earlier you can choose
anything you like this is a private
virtual interface underneath all of that
there's then an md5 key that's used for
authentication between the two BGP peers
and the end result of this is we now
have an ebgp session up and running
between AWS and your equipment from the
AWS side what are we going to be
announcing it is quite simple it's the
side a block for your VPC it will be a
single prefix announcement we don't
announce individual subnets and it will
be just that VPC that you attached the
virtual interface to
on your site as I said you can announce
anything to us generally it would be the
culprit addresses but it could be a
default route but either way you still
need to go into the virtual into the
route table inside your VPC and either
turn on route propagation or put a
static route in there this is exactly
the same as we did for the VPN
connection earlier so let's go back to
the physical deployment that we had and
you recall earlier where we've broken
down the various components that make up
the connection and obviously you could
have two connections now if you request
to direct connect connections via the
AWS console we will automatically
provision those for you on different
equipment on the AWS side so at this
point you've got hardware resilience and
redundancy it's to coming into the same
physical Rooter on your side in this
particular scenario and but then onward
into your network to provide that
connectivity so what does this look like
if we have two physical connections what
do we now do with the virtual interfaces
well each of those physical connections
is treated independently so we're going
to configure to virtual interfaces to
private this in this case all the same
parameters that we had before but
there's two of them one thing I want to
draw attention to here though is that
because we're attaching these virtual
interfaces to the same VPC we need to
make sure that we're using different IP
addresses for the peering you can
however use the same VLAN and that's
because the VLAN is just contained to
that one particular physical connection
is used to separate out each of the
virtual interfaces but beyond that it
doesn't get carried into the aid of us
network at all so for simplicity we
quite often sneak customers creating
virtual interfaces with same VLAN number
on each of their connections if they're
going to the same place so going back to
the physical infrastructure again
obviously this kind of gives you a level
of resilience you now have two
connections from AWS but actually it
would be much better if we simply did
that so let's have to customer Reuters
so the same configuration applies here
there's no difference in terms of how
you deploy this but it is a really
simple solution but a variation on that
again if you want a level of resilience
that is geographically diverse is to
move those two Reuters on your side in
two different direct connect locations
so here I'm showing
that has to direct connect locations so
two separate sets of direct connect
Reuters going to two separate customer
gateway devices and then on virus
service provider into your network but
if we've gone this far well we can
simply do that as well so now we have
four direct connect connections the
point I'm making is that you can layer
as much resiliency into the solution as
you like we give you the options to do
this and each time you do you then just
create virtual interfaces on top of the
physical connections to carry that
traffic to your resources on the AWS
side and in reality a combination of
these scenarios are used by many
customers so we've got our two virtual
interfaces up and running let's let's
keep a fairly simple scenario just two
connections well what does that look
like well if you've got two virtual
interface you probably want to be
running them in an active active
configuration and by default if these
came into the same Rooter what would
happen is your Ridge will make a
decision of which one it prefers based
on a certain algorithm and that would be
where it sends all the traffic you can
quite simply update that to use BGP
multipath so the example here is a cisco
router by adding one extra configuration
option maximum paths to the m will
appear next to those particular routes
in the route table which means you'll
now be multipathing across them
effectively network level load balancing
if you like so now you're getting the
benefit of both physical connections if
we look at it though from the
perspective of the virtual gateway its
received those announcements from you
what's it going to do with them it's
received the same thing twice well we
automatically assume therefore that you
want to run this as active active and
that you would like us to also do
multipath so we can see these two
identical paths by two different peers
perfect we'll do multi path for you this
is not a configuration or option or
anything that you do in the console
that's what we choose by default what if
you don't want to run active active
though so what if on your side these
connections go to perhaps two different
data centers and you run active standby
or a hot cold setup well in that case
you're going to want to choose one
particular connection over the other and
you probably want to actively decide
which one you want
prefer so this is where that local
preference thing comes in that I
mentioned earlier in your configuration
you specify that as you receive these
routes from us you apply a local
preference to them the higher the
preference the more preferred route so
in this case the bottom example 200
that's the one that we're going to be
using and you can see that indicated by
the chevron on the left-hand side so
that's our preferred path from the
customer side but what about on the
virtual gateway side well we haven't
changed anything so it's still the same
is path length we're still going to be
doing BGP multipath so you're going to
be sending traffic over one connection
we're going to reply by sending traffic
over both of them and that's probably
not what you wanted to achieve will we
give you the ability to influence that
choice and you do this using a s path
prepending so what you do here is you
artificially make us believe that one of
those connections is slightly longer in
terms of network distance than the other
so in this case I have two examples
we're doing a s prepending x 2 and x 1
where we put our a es number on the path
a couple of times before we pass it on
to the AWS reuters so now we look at
that from the virtual gateway
perspective and one of these paths looks
longer than the other so we now make a
path selection and we choose the
shortest path so at this point you've
influenced our choice of whether we're
doing active passive or active active
there's no configuration that you need
to do in the console for this this is
all controlled from your customer device
where you're announcing these routes so
let's move on and talk availa a public
virtual interface over direct connect so
it provides access to Amazon's public IP
addresses so this is all of the public
IP addresses for that particular AWS
region everything that's running there
that includes things like s3 it could
include other services that are running
on AWS it could include the AWS the
Amazon retail site when you set up a BGP
session from a public virtual interface
there are a few different requirements
though compared to a private virtual
interface we require you to use public
IP addresses on a public virtual
interface so if you've got your own IP
addresses that you can use for this
peering session and you're going to
announce public IP addresses to us great
nothing else needs to happen you just
configure it in the console and I'll
you what that looks like if however you
don't have public IP addresses that you
own or you aren't able to break up your
network to be able to use those on a BGP
session with AWS then raise a case with
a double your support will actually
issue you a / 31 so two IP addresses
that you can use for this BGP peering
session which point you can nap behind
that on your end of the connection to
reach all of these services so simply
raise a case with a double your support
if that's something you need for a
public virtual interface the AES number
that you use on the public virtual
interface if you're going to use a
public is number you will need to own
that is and we go through a verification
process when you set up a public virtual
interface where we validate the
ownership of the IP addresses and the AS
number that you've used when configuring
it if you don't have a public AS number
that's fine you can use a private AS
number finally this into regional
feature that's available within the u.s.
so what is it well quite simply a direct
connect location is associated with one
particular region so a private virtual
interface gives us access to the V pcs
within that region public virtual
interface access to the public services
within that region within the u.s.
however we actually announced all of the
public IP addresses from all of the US
regions at any of our Direct Connect
locations so that means you could get a
connection on the west coast but
actually be accessing services on the
East Coast all through that single
connection we recently announced that
we've added BGP communities to these
announcements so this was posted on the
forum last week what this means is that
when you look at the prefixes we
announce to you you can now identify
where they came from so if you see the
8100 community tagged on a particular
prefix you know that came from the local
AWS region to which you're connected if
it's got 8200 on it it came from
somewhere within the continent from one
of the other regions and equally for
traffic engineering purposes on your
side you might not want us to propagate
your roots beyond the local region so as
you announced them into our network we
look at the communities that you tag
them with as well so if you tag them
with 90 100 then we'll keep them to just
the local AWS region if you tag them
with
200 they'll go to all of the AWS regions
and that's the the default position
within the u.s. so what does the public
virtual interface look like in our
configuration well exactly all of the
same parameters we talked about for a
private virtual interface at the top
there it's got a DX fifth identifier a
VLAN IP addresses for the BGP session
it's got an AS number both sides and an
md5 key but you're going to see a
slightly different announcement from the
AWS side it's not a single prefix now
it's going to be all of those prefixes I
talked about and these vary over time so
you might be aware that we actually
publish a list of all of the Amazon IP
addresses via an IP ranges JSON file
that you can use to download and compare
against this list if you need to on the
customer side though you can announce to
us whatever public IP addresses you want
us to root 2 and this impacts all
traffic that leaves that particular AWS
region that's why we go through the
verification process to check that you
own them that process takes maximum of
72 hours usually a much shorter time and
if you've used those IP addresses with
us before it will go through much more
of an automatic process you can announce
those IP addresses to us and now all
traffic leaving the Amazon network
destined for those IP addresses will go
over this public virtual interface
rather than over the Internet here's an
example of the output again on a cisco
router in this particular case and you
can see the AS path on the right hand
side you'll notice that 7224 which is
the one we use for direct connect is
present on all of them but then beyond
that you see another one and one 6509 is
the Amazon global is number so we use
7224 just for direct connect and then
you're going to see the other amazon is
numbers beyond that for some of the
prefixes as a community example here's a
particular announcement that's coming
over BGP where its showing that it's
tagged with the 8100 and the 8200
community so this is showing that it's
an inter-regional side of the local AWS
region so how do we actually deploy all
of this how do we order it what does it
look like well here are the steps and
the very first important one is make
sure you choose the correct region or
during a connection in the wrong region
like
view a few few problems if you do just
to be clear just delete the connection
as soon as you've created it it's not a
problem choose the region you want the
connection in the reason that's
important is when you go to actually
create the connection in the direct
connect console we then populate a list
of the direct connect locations and
obviously they're tied to that
particular region you then choose the
amount of bandwidth you need and that's
it that's your direct connect connection
request it we will then send you by
email an loa co a CF a letter of
authority connecting facility agreement
it's a document that says you have
permission to excuse me you have
permission to connect to these ports on
the AWS Reuters you're going to be using
this with the facility provider to order
that cross connect or with the partner
if they're going to be providing
connectivity the LOA CFA is sent to the
root email address of the account that
requested the connection so make sure
that you are monitoring the email
account for that particular address once
you've received the LOA you then need to
order the cross connect in our
documentation we actually provide a list
of the locations and what the process is
for that particular provider some of
them require this by email some of them
have a long line portal that you upload
this the loa to so just follow their
process to order the cross connect or a
partner will be doing on your behalf
once you've done that you're then able
to configure your virtual interfaces now
you can actually do this before the
physical connection even comes up so
once you've ordered it you've ordered
the cross-connect start configuring the
virtual interfaces at the very very top
of the screen is the decision as to
whether this is a public or a private
virtual interface once you make that
decision the form then updates below
that to change some of the fields to
match the items I was talking about
earlier so now you fill in the details
you're going to name this connection and
you can see there the virtual interface
owner is one of the options you've got
so you can share this virtual interface
into another AWS account as per the
examples we had on the screen earlier
once that's done just like in the VPN
configuration scenario we give you the
option to download a Rooter
configuration there's a very basic
configuration but it contains all the
information you need for your end of the
connection so contain the IP addresses
for the peering session the AS number
being used by amazon the md5 key that
you either
chose or that you've generated and all
of the other details you need for
configuring that connection so that's if
you're ordering a one or a 10 gig
dedicated port the process if you're
doing this through a partner for one of
those sub 1 gig connections is slightly
different it's actually initiated by the
partner so you're going to give your AWS
account number to the partner this is
your 12 digit AWS account number and
you're going to have a discussion with
them about how much bandwidth you need
the partner is then going to configure
that as a hosted connection for you and
you'll go into your account and simply
accept that hosted connection appears in
the same Direct Connect console where
you would have requested your own
dedicated port once you've accepted that
connection with them back into the
standard flow that we were following
earlier configure a virtual interface
configure our router so there's no
difference once you've accepted that
connection but remember you can only
create a single virtual interface on
that hosted connection okay now
depending on how much resilience you've
put into your solution you might have
two connections going to two different
Direct Connect locations we'd still
always recommend that you put a VPN in
place you know maintenance still might
need to be done by your carrier's your
partner's you might need to replace a
Rooter it's always good to have another
backup in place so you can configure
this VPN as a dynamic bgp based VPN as
we talked about earlier in exactly the
same way in parallel to direct connect
we talked about the fact that from the
AWS side if we see multiple ways out of
a virtual gateway going by a direct
connect and via VPN will always prefer
the direct connects first after that we
then failover back to the VPNs and you
would need to configure the same on your
site so you make past selections there
one other interesting variation of
running a VPN with direct connect is to
actually run it over the top of a direct
connect so if you wanted an encrypted
connection into your VPC or perhaps you
wanted to reach a VPC that is in a
remote AWS region so in the US you might
have your direct connect on the west
coast and you're running your v pc on
the east coast well perhaps you to
establish a VPN over that public virtual
interface because within the
announcements for all of the Amazon
public IP addresses are the endpoints
for those VPN connections as well so now
you can take advantage of the
direct connect that you have already on
one coast and connect to resources on
the other coast running over the Amazon
backbone network so you can see the
components here that you'd have to
configure to do that you've got the
public virtual interface at the top of
the screen all the parameters that we
had before and then running over the top
of that we have our two tunnels for the
VPN connection again running bgp so you
then need to accept those on to your
router and configure it appropriately to
route to the different v pcs on the AWS
side now I just wanted to touch on
billing for both of these services so
VPN connections pretty simple there are
charges for each connection our that
your connection is present and then we
charge for data transfer at our standard
internet rates on Direct Connect we
charge for port hours so this is a
charge from the moment that your port
goes active so when you first order that
for we know that it's going to take a
bit of time to organize that cross
connect and to work with a partner
perhaps to get their connection to your
facility so we don't start charging you
for that port until it comes up for the
first time or if 90 days of expired
whichever comes sooner over a direct
connect you benefit from the reduced
data transfer charges and one thing I
wanted to identify here was that you
don't pay for data transfer when you're
accessing resources that are owned by
other accounts so if you're downloading
content from my s3 bucket you don't pay
for that data transfer over direct
connect you only pay for data transfer
from your own resources and finally if
you're running a VPN over the top of
direct connect in the scenario that was
on the previous slide that gets charged
for the reduced rate for direct connect
and not at the internet data transfer
rates so a few things to remember around
direct connect it's one of our services
that has that physical component to it
so although you interact with it via the
API is and via the console the end
result is a physical port that you need
to connect to so these ports are lat
third-party data centers these are not
Amazon data centers and they're there
because we want you to be able to access
them you're going to have to work with
at least one other organization to
achieve this connectivity if you're
within the facility it's going to be the
colocation provider it could be a
network provider or a direct connect
partner or it could be a combination of
multiple if you're going to do
connections to multiple
lets so it's always going to involve a
third party sub 1 gig connections only
support single virtual interfaces that's
quite easy to overcome if you need
multiple you just request multiple
hosted connections and run a diff over
each one of them you can share virtual
interfaces with other accounts so just
because the physical connection lives in
one account you can use it within
another one and finally remember that
the public virtual interfaces do include
the hardware VPN endpoints that you can
use for a BGP or static based VPN this
is just an example of an implementation
plan for direct connect and the reason
I've put it up here is because of those
third-party engagements that are
required usually for deploying direct
connect I'd recommend that you do treat
it as a mini project so put together a
plan establish who should be doing what
standard project planning and then stick
to it worked through that process you
might have some complications along the
way with perhaps carriers arranging
connections but if you have something
that everyone is referring to as the
steps that are required this is
something it's going to really help you
succeed with the connection ok so just
winding up we're going to talk about the
cloud hub functionality that we have so
within a virtual gateway if you have
multiple connections be they over a VPN
or virtual interfaces over direct
connect if we see multiple connections
all coming from different AAS numbers in
BGP terms will actually route between
them for you will acts as a hub to a
hub-and-spoke network so this is not
something that you go and turn on or
turn off its default functionality
within the virtual gateway so at this
point we can provide that connectivity
between your different locations if
that's something you want some customers
use it as a backup and have their own
network linking their sites together one
other common deployment that we see is
customers choose to deploy their own VPN
solution perhaps they have an
established software solution that they
use already and we have many on the AWS
marketplace so the cisco csr the sophos
UTM there's various open-source options
such as openswan bios things like that
so you can deploy a software vpm within
your v pc of course in this case it does
either virtual private gateway it comes
in through the internet gateway and
terminates on that ec2 instance you also
do need to consider high availability if
you deploy a solution like this though
so certainly make sure you deploy at
least to VPN instances into two
different availability zones and have
appropriate health checking and failover
between them one final interesting
scenario is to combine those two things
together so we can take cloud hub and a
software VPN running in another AWS
region connect the two together and
provide access fire direct connect or
VPN from the other locations so let me
explain that a little bit more detail
down on the bottom right there we've got
one of your office locations perhaps it
might have a direct connect into the
virtual private gateway and it's
receiving a BGP announcement for the VPC
in u.s. East one in this example if you
then deployed a software VPN solution
into EU Central one perhaps and
established a VPN from those software
instances to the same virtual gateway in
u.s. East the prefix is now that are
going to be announced from that VPC in
EU central are actually going to be
propagated by the virtual gateway to you
over that direct connect so you're now
actually benefiting from a single
connection or in this case to office
connections into AWS unable to route via
the Virtual Private gateway to a VPC in
another region so just to recap the
topics that we cover there we talked
about VPNs both static and dynamic how
can we achieve connectivity using AWS
direct connect via both public and
private virtual interfaces cloud hub and
software VPNs how you can use them
together and then finally hopefully I've
given you an insight into some of the
steps required to configure all of these
elements without I'd like to say thank
you very much and I'd really appreciate
it if you could complete the session
evaluations thank